		       UNIX Configuration Notes

     The IMAP and POP3 servers are plug-and-play on standard UNIX
systems.  There is no special configuration needed.  Please ignore all
rumors to the effect that you need to create an IMAP configuration
file.

     If your system is non-standard, virtually everything that you are
likely to want to modify can be found in the source file
	.../src/osdep/unix/env_unix.c
In particular, special attention should be given to the routines:
 env_init()		initialize c-client environment variables,
			especially the user name and home directory
 sysinbox()		return the UNIX path of the INBOX in which
			mail delivery will place mail
 mailboxdir()		translate a mailbox name into the associated
			UNIX directory for listing
 mailboxfile()		translate a mailbox name into the associated
			UNIX file for opening

     You should modify these routines as necessary for local policy.
The most common modifications are to env_init(), to modify the
software's idea of the home directory (which is used everywhere as the
default directory), and to sysinbox(), to modify where the software
looks for newly-delivered mail.

     Example 1: suppose your mailer delivers mail to file ".mailbox"
in the user's home directory instead of the default UNIX mail spool
directory.  You will want to change routine sysinbox(), changing the
line that reads:
    sprintf (tmp,"%s/%s",MAILSPOOL,myusername ());
to be:
    sprintf (tmp,"%s/.mailbox",myhomedir ());

     Example 2: suppose you want to change c-client's idea of the
user's mailbox directory to be the "mail" subdirectory of the user's
home directory instead of the user's home directory.  You will want to
change variable mailsubdir, changing the line that reads:

static char *mailsubdir = NIL;	/* mail subdirectory name */
 to be:
static char *mailsubdir = "mail";/* mail subdirectory name */

     Example 3: suppose you want to disable plaintext authentication.
You will want to change variable plaintextdisabled, changing the line
which reads:

static short plaintextdisabled = NIL;
 to be:
static short plaintextdisabled = T;

     Ignore all references in env_unix.c to a configuration file; that
code is for UW-internal use only.  It is extremely unlikely that that
facility will work usefully for you; it is extremely likely that you
will shoot yourself in the foot by using; and it frequently changes in
an incompatible manner.

     There are two other build-time configuration issues which you may
need to consider: drivers and authenticators.  Both of these are set
up in the top-level Makefile -- in particular, by the EXTRADRIVERS and
EXTRAAUTHENTICATORS variables.

     Drivers are code modules that support different mailbox storage
technologies.  By default, all drivers are enabled.  There is little
benefit to be gained by disabling a driver, with one exception.  The
mbox driver implements the behavior of automatically moving new mail
from the spool directory to the "mbox" file on the user's home
directory, if and *only* if the "mbox" exists and is in mailbox
format.  The mbox driver is listed under EXTRADRIVERS; if you wish to
disable it just remove it from that list and rebuild.

     Authenticators are code modules that support authentication
technology for the server (password file lookup, Kerberos, S/Key,
etc.).  EXTRAAUTHENTICATORS is used to add an authenticator.  This
subject can be complex; find a wizard if you can't figure it out.

     It is also possible to add your own drivers and authenticators.
This is a topic for wizards, and is beyond the scope of this text.

			NT Configuration Notes

     This software is not plug-and-play on NT.  If you're not a hacker
and/or are unwilling to invest the time to do some programming, you
probably want to buy a commercial server for NT.

     The primary issue that you need to deal with is the format of
mail, where the INBOX is located, and where secondary folders are
located.  As distributed, the software supports mail in the default
format used on UNIX (unix format) as well as mbx, mtx, and tenex
formats.  mbx format is encouraged if at all possible; mtx and tenex
format are for compatibility with the past.  However, it all depends
upon how and where your SMTP server delivers mail.

     To change the default mailbox format, edit the symbol
DEFAULTDRIVER in:
	../src/osdep/nt/makefile.nt
or
	../src/osdep/nt/makefile.ntk
To change the default location of INBOX, edit the file:
	../src/osdep/nt/mailfile.h
Virtually everything else having to do with environment that you are
likely to want to modify can be found in the source file:
	.../src/osdep/nt/env_nt.c
In particular, special attention should be given to the routines:
 env_init()		initialize c-client environment variables,
			especially the user name and home directory
 sysinbox()		return the NT path of the INBOX in which
			mail delivery will place mail
 mailboxdir()		translate a mailbox name into the associated
			NT directory for listing
 mailboxfile()		translate a mailbox name into the associated
			NT file for opening

     You should modify these routines as necessary.  The most common
modifications are to env_init(), to modify the software's idea of the
home directory (which is used everywhere as the default directory),
and to sysinbox(), to modify where the software looks for
newly-delivered mail.

     There are two other build-time configuration issues which you may
need to consider: drivers and authenticators.  Both of these are set
up in the top-level Makefile -- in particular, by the EXTRADRIVERS and
EXTRAAUTHENTICATORS variables.

     Drivers are code modules that support different mailbox storage
technologies.  By default, all drivers are enabled.  There is little
benefit to be gained by disabling a driver.

     Authenticators are code modules that support authentication
technology for the server (password file lookup, Kerberos, S/Key,
etc.).  EXTRAAUTHENTICATORS is used to add an authenticator.  This
subject can be complex; find a wizard if you can't figure it out.

     It is also possible to add your own drivers and authenticators.
