Updated: 2 November 2001

imap-2001a is a maintenance release, consisting primarily of bugfixes
including some critical bugfixes to crash and denial of service problems.
Programs written for imap-2001 will build with this version without
modification.

The following new facilities have also been added:

The new /norsh switch in mailbox names provides a more intuitive way of
disabling rsh-IMAP than the existing :143 or setting the rsh-timeout to 0.

Passwords are no longer returned in mm_dlog() callbacks unless the
application sets the SET_DEBUGSENSITIVE parameter.

The SET_NETFSSTATBUG parameter allows an application to force the
traditional UNIX mailbox driver to close and reopen the mailbox at ping
time.  This is EXTREMELY inefficient, and should only be used to access
files stored on AFS and old NFS systems.

The ISO 8859 and Windows conversion tables have been updated to comply
with Unicode 3.1, and the KOI8-R table has been verified as compliant with
Unicode 3.1.

The SPECIALS mechanism for passing parameters to the lowest level Makefile
has been updated to be more general.  See the next item for why you might
care.

New lrh port to build on Red Hat Linux 7.2, with pre-set definitions for
the places where Red Hat has placed Kerberos and SSL.  It's actually just
the lnp port with SPECIALS defined accordingly.  You may want to use it as
a model if your system needs such definitions.  Note that SPECIALS is
primarily for IMAP toolkit (and Pine) purposes, and that user settings
should use EXTRASPECIALS instead.


Updated: 22 June 2001

imap-2001 is a major release.  Programs written for imap-2000 will probably
build with this version without modification.

The FAQ document has been significantly expanded.  Be sure to read it for
more information.

In addition to the usual bugfixes, the following features are new in
imap-2001:

SSL is now fully integrated into the IMAP toolkit; the old "alt" kludges to
be able to produce a "sanitized" version of the IMAP toolkit to comply with
late unlamented US export regulations are now completely gone.

Full client and server TLS support is also in this release.

The server certificate must be signed by a trusted certificate authority and
the name in the certificate match the user's entry for the server host name;
this means that the user must enter a fully-qualified host name.

To build with SSL/TLS on UNIX, you now use "SSLTYPE=unix" instead of the
former "SPECIALAUTHENTICATORS=ssl".  To build with SSL/TLS on UNIX and disable
the use of plaintext passwords except when under SSL/TLS, use "SSLTYPE=nopwd"
instead of "SSLTYPE=unix".

RFC 1730 (IMAP4 as opposed to IMAP4rev1) support is turned off by default in
imapd.  No clients should still be using RFC 1730 protocol.  Look at the imapd
Makefile for how to re-enable RFC 1730 support.  Note that this code may be
removed in the future, so if you think you need it you had better let me know.

There are some new options (turned off by default) which attempt to work around
problems in certain clients.  See the FAQ file for more details.


Updated: 24 January 2001

imap-2000c is a maintenance release, consisting primarily of bugfixes.


Updated: 9 January 2001

imap-2000b is a maintenance release, consisting primarily of bugfixes.


Updated: 9 November 2000

imap-2000a is a maintenance release, consisting primarily of bugfixes.


Updated: 19 September 2000

imap-2000 is a major release.  There are major internal and external changes
from earlier versions (imap-4.x and imap-3.x series).  Programs written for
imap-4.x will probably build with this version without modification.  It is
extremely unlikely that a program written for imap-3.x or earlier series will
build with this version without modifications.  Drivers written for earlier
versions will definitely need to be rewritten.

In addition to the usual bugfixes, the following features are new in
imap-2000:

SSL support is now available.  For UNIX, it is necessary to install some
version of OpenSSL; see imap-2000/docs/SSLBUILD for more information.  SSL
support is now automatic for the NT, NTK, and W2K ports.  SSL use is indicated
by the /ssl switch in the mailbox name.

With SSL connections, the server certificate is validated by the client code
on UNIX, and Windows 2000 unless /novalidate-cert is specified.  Server
certificates are currently is not validated on Windows 9x, Windows Millenium,
or Windows NT 4; this is an artifact of the operating system and not the port
(e.g. client code using the NT port will validate certificates if running on
Windows 2000).  On UNIX, the server certificate must be signed by a trusted
certificate authority.  On Windows 2000, the certificate must be signed by a
trusted certificate authority and match the user's entry for the server host
name; this means that the user must enter a fully-qualified host name.

Calendar reclama for the benefit of old broken non-Y2K compliant software.
Two digit years from 00 to 69 will be interpreted as 2000 through 2069.  In
addition, three digit years from 100 to 105 will be interpreted as 2000
through 2005.

Support for REFERENCES threading (in addition to the previously-existing
ORDEREDSUBJECT threading).

Support for the IMAP MULTIAPPEND extension.  This allows much faster uploading
of multiple messages to an IMAP server.

Support for the LOGINDISABLED IMAP capability.  If the IMAP server sends
LOGINDISABLED as a capability, the client code will never attempt to send an
IMAP LOGIN command.

Support for SASL authentication identity vs. authorization identity.  If the
authentication method does not support this concept (e.g. AUTH=CRAM-MD5,
AUTH=LOGIN, LOGIN command), the "*" character in the user name may be used to
indicate a separate authentication identity; for example, "fred*joe" indicates
authorization identity "fred", authentication identity "joe".


UNIX-specific Changes:

Support for SASL authentication identity vs. authorization identity in the
IMAP and POP3 servers.  If the user indicated by the authentication identity
is in the "mailadm" group, he may specify any authorization identity and get
logged in as the authorization identity user.

If the IMAP and POP3 servers are build with PASSWDTYPE=nul, it will send
LOGINDISABLED as a capability and also disable the AUTH=LOGIN and AUTH=PLAIN
SASL authenticators.

New MAILSUBDIR build option to change the default mailbox directory from the
user's home directory to a subdirectory of the user's home directory.  See
imap-2000/Makefile for more information.

New CHROOT_SERVER build option for closed server systems only.  If defined, a
chroot() call to the user's home directory is done as part of the login
process.  See imap-2000/Makefile for more information.

New ADVERTISE_THE_WORLD build option which will add an IMAP namespace that
points to the root.  Not for the faint of heart.

UNIX format mailboxes no longer require the pseudo-message, nor will a
pseudo-message be added to a mailbox that does not have one.  A new
X-IMAPbase: header will be written in the first message.  This is rather less
efficient and robust than the pseudo-message (which remains the encouraged
mechanism; UNIX format mailboxes will always be created with it), but perhaps
will pacify some people who get upset by the pseudo-message.

When building with MIT Kerberos it will try to detect and use libk5crypto.a
instead of libcrypto.a.

The mbx driver is more aggressive about cleaning up expunged messages that
couldn't be purged because of shared access to the mailbox at the time of
expunge.  Now, every checkpoint will try to purge such messages; and a
checkpoint is attempted at close time.


Windows-specific Changes:

New W2K port for Windows 2000.  In addition to supporting SSL using the
official SSPI interface (the NT and NTK ports invoke SChannel.DLL directly),
the W2K port also supports Microsoft Kerberos.  Note that the NT and NTK ports
will work on Windows 2000, but the W2K port will not work on NT4, Windows
9x, or Windows Millenium.

There is now a #user namespace, equivalent to the "~" namespace on UNIX.



Changes for Developers:

New c-client.h file which acts as a master include.  c-client based
applications should now include c-client.h instead of the individual c-client
files (mail.h, misc.h, etc.).  It is believed that c-client.h will work in C++
applications.

New GET_FREEENVELOPESPAREP/SET_FREEENVELOPESPAREP and
GET_FREEELTSPAREP/SET_FREEELTSPAREP function callbacks to free the "sparep"
member of the envelope and cache elements, respectively.

New OP_MULNEWSRC flag to mail_open() to use multiple newsrc files, and new
GET_NEWSRCQUERY/SET_NEWSRCQUERY function callbacks to get the name of the
newsrc file for news access.

New "secret" nntp_article() function to do the NNTP ARTICLE command; this is
generally useful only when chasing news URLs.

New GET_HIDEDOTFILES/SET_HIDEDOTFILES feature to suppress file names that
start with "." in mail_list() results.
